Today, we're gonna be in Joshua chapter six.
We're gonna talk about Jericho.
Most of you, probably, if you've been going to church for any length of time, especially if you grew up in church, are almost certainly gonna be familiar with the story of the fall of Jericho.
Have you ever been in a place where you felt like you were out of resources?
You know, when you have pushed everything that you have to the very edge
And the problem is still not solved, and you're kind of like, oh my gosh, I don't know what I'm gonna do now.
And in a spiritual sense, that's right where God wants us, right?
We're gonna talk about a different way to handle those kinds of seemingly insurmountable objects and odds today.
But we've all been there.
I heard about this young man that he had worked on the railroad for years, and he said he wanted a job as a signalman.
And so for his interview, he was told to meet the inspector at the signal box.
The inspector asked him, he said, what would you do if you realized the two trains were heading toward each other on the same track?
The young man said, well, that's easy.
I would switch the points for one of the trains.
The inspector said, well, what if that lever was broken?
He said, the young man said, then I jumped down out of the signal box and I'd use the manual lever over there.
Then the inspector said, what if that lever had been struck by lightning?
The young man said, well, then I would run to the signal box and phone the next signal box to let him know what was happening.
Inspector continued and he said, well, what if that phone was busy?
The young man said, well, in that case I get down out of the signal box and use the public emergency phone at the crossing up there.
Then the inspector said, well,
What would you do if the public emergency phone had been vandalized?"
The young man said, well, he said, I guess I'd run to town and get my dad.
And the inspector was a little confused.
And he said, well, why would you go get your dad?
And he said, well, he ain't never seen two trains crash before.
You know, all of us, right, when we come to the end of our resources and we don't know what the next step is, you know, we rely on God, we depend on God.
Sometimes when we come to the end of our own resources, we just get angry because we have done everything that we have, we can do or know to do and the situation is not a lot better.
I mean, one, you know, one time Becky almost got divorced just saying the blinds in our house and
I mean, I'd come to the end of my rope on hanging those blinds and trying to get them, you know, straight and all that kind of thing.
And when I'd come to the end of all of my resources, I was just ticked off, you know, and I think she was ticked off probably more so at me than the situation, but I was ticked off.
Some people will just sit back like this operator and say, well, a crash is going to happen for sure because I wasn't able to stop it.
I wasn't able to prevent it.
And this, you know, all of us need to think to ourselves, is there a better way to do that?
Is there a better way to handle the crisis in our life or the obstacles in our lives, the Jericho's in our lives apart from using only our own resources?
That's a question that all of us need to ask.
It's also a question that any individual or every church needs to ask.
which is one of the questions is, are we content to remain the same way that we are?
You know, spiritually am I content to remain the same way that I am?
Now I know that I have not arrived, right?
Nobody arrives until they get to heaven.
And then the sanctification of God making me more like Jesus is finished.
But up until that time,
in my content to stay the same way that I am now.
And the answer for all of us in this room ought to be a resounding no.
I want to keep growing.
I want to keep learning.
I want to keep singing.
I want to keep praising the Lord.
I want to keep being thankful.
I want to learn to be more humble.
It should be all of those things.
And a church has to answer the same question.
Churches face obstacles just like individual people face obstacles.
If your church is against an obstacle, are we willing to stay the same way we have been?
Or do we want to continue to grow?
Because listen friends, one thing that we're gonna learn about this story in Jericho is that God does not ask you to do anything very often that's super easy, right?
A lot of the things he asks you to do are hard.
And you don't know how you can accomplish them in your own will.
You don't know how you can accomplish them in your own strength.
And the reason is you can't.
And we're gonna see that two different times, maybe three different times here in this story.
What we are gonna see is that neither Joshua nor the children of Israel fought the battle, right?
The battle had already been, the battle, the outcome was not in question by the time Joshua and the Israelite army arrived at Jericho.
God already had a plan.
He already had a purpose.
He already knew what it was that he was gonna do.
He knew that the battle was the lords.
And so in chapter six, we see that the time has come from the people of Israel to leave the desert.
And it almost seems like God is taking him right back where they were at the time of the rebellion as he leads them through the Jordan River.
And they're in the same spot as the previous generation, right?
They're at the water's edge and they have to, they have to make a decision.
And the decision is, what are we going to do?
Are we going to follow God who has led us up to this point?
Or are we going to go our own way and do our own thing and see what happens?
And so the question we ask ourselves is how am I doing spiritually?
Am I moving ahead or am I falling behind?
And the thing that we need to ask ourselves as a church, how are we doing spiritually?
Are we going ahead or are we falling behind?
I've heard it said that most people would rather stay in the certainty of misery than move to the misery of uncertainty.
And that's true.
A lot of people spend their whole lives staying in the misery of certainty because then at least then they know what to expect.
But they're petrified to take the next step of obedience because they're afraid they may experience the misery of uncertainty.
I've seen people live through terribly devastating things in their lives because they couldn't move forward, because they couldn't get out of the box that they had put themselves in.
And they knew what God wanted them to do.
And they knew what God wanted was the next step, but they were just terrified to take that step because they couldn't see how in my strength, how am I as a human going to be able to do that?
without understanding that you don't have to do it at all.
It's just, it's God who's going to do it.
You just have to take a step.
And so when we look at this and we talk about the fall of Jericho, you know, I want you to ask yourself, what is my personal Jericho?
You know, what is it in my life that stands as an obstacle to keeping me from entering into all that God has promised to me?
I mean, God has promised great and amazing and beautiful things and He wants us to be able to access those promises.
He wants us to be able to live an abundant life right now.
How do you do that?
I mean, it could be an inner Jericho.
It may be a thought pattern.
It may be a temperament.
It may be a personality characteristic that you want to change that's keeping you from moving on.
We need to find out how the walls of that Jericho and your heart and in my heart and in this church or anywhere else we find them can fall down.
It might be an outer Jericho.
It may be something in front of you that somebody else has caused and you're the victim of that.
And God wants you to forgive them.
God wants you to move past that, but you just don't see how you can do it.
You just don't see, you don't know that you have the strength to do it.
Today we're going to talk about this Jericho falling in the Old Testament.
And I hope you're applying it to your personal lives as well.
But the first thing we see here is that God demonstrated His power.
We're going to lead up to this battle of Jericho.
We need to get a running start to see how God prepared the people for this miracle.
He demonstrated His power.
Look at this passage of Romans.
I teach a Bible study in Romans on Tuesday.
And so then I'm in Joshua now.
Joshua chapter 3 verses 5 and 8, Joshua told the people, consecrate yourselves for tomorrow the Lord will do amazing things among you.
Tell the priests to carry the ark of the covenant.
When you reach the edge of the Jordan's waters, go and stand in the river.
Now listen, I think a great prayer to pray every day is God consecrate me for tomorrow.
I know that you're going to do amazing things.
among their people.
I mean, God does amazing things among his people every single day.
So every single day, before we get out of bed, we can say, God, consecrate me, right?
Use me, God.
Forgive me of anything that is in me that is unclean, that is unholy.
You know, get it out of my life so that I can so that my spiritual eyes can be open and I can see the great work that you're doing among your people because he's doing it every single day.
The Jordan River at this time was at flood stage.
It had overflown its banks and it was at the highest it ever was during the year.
And this is when God says to them, you're going to cross that river.
Now we know that God had taken the previous generation and they had crossed the Red Sea.
And that was, that was certainly dangerous, but perhaps this is even more dangerous
because we've all seen how fast, flooded rivers move and how quickly the water flows through a flooded river bank.
And so in chapter three, verses 14 through 16, it says, so when the people broke camp to cross the Jordan, the priests carrying the ark of the covenant went ahead of them.
Now the Jordan is at fled stage all during harvest, yet as soon as the priests who carry the ark reached the Jordan,
And their feet touched the water's edge.
The water from upstream stopped flowing.
It piled up in a heap a great distance away at a town called Adam in the vicinity of Xerithin, while the water flowing down to the sea of Araba, the salt sea, we call it the dead sea today, was completely cut off.
So the people crossed over opposite Jericho.
You know, sometimes we forget the amazing things that God has done in our lives.
Remember, I said the previous generation, God had stopped the waters of the Red Sea and they had crossed.
And there's a lot of symbolism that Pastor Tim has done an amazing job in this whole series talking about how this relates to our own personal lives.
And so, and now what God is saying is right because God knows the people don't yet know, maybe, that
Jericho is out there, but God knows that Jericho is out there.
And so what does God do for this next generation?
He gives them a big, you know, neon sign that says, I will take care of you.
And he does that by having them cross the Jordan River at flood stage.
And God miraculously holds up that water.
Right?
The old generation that came out of Egypt to Kadesh Barnea had not trusted God and entered in.
And that generation wandered in the wilderness for 40 years, and everybody from that generation passed, except for Caleb and Joshua.
And here they are at the wall of Jericho.
And so oftentimes, right, when we look back on our lives, it's so easy for us to forget the miracles that God has already performed in my life and in your life.
And if you say, well, I'll look back on it, but I don't know that God has performed any miracles.
Oh, yes, he has.
Right?
When you're saved, you are reborn.
That is a miracle.
The Bible says you were dead in your trespasses.
That word that means dead there is a word that really means like it is a surefire thing.
You're dead.
You may be walking around.
You may be smiling at people and getting through your day.
But spiritually, you're dead.
And your future as a spiritually dead person is assured
at an eternity spent apart from God.
But God chases us with the power of the Holy Spirit, with the blood of Jesus.
John Stock called him the Hound of Heaven.
He chases us and chases us and the minute we say yes to Jesus and place our faith in Jesus, the Bible says a miracle takes place and my dead spirit is brought alive forever more.
And the same thing,
that was true about my dead spirit and that future being a surefire bet is said about me once I have a redeemed spirit that my future is a surefire bet.
Jesus says, I will not lose those whom the Father gives me.
No, not one, but we're prone to forget so many times.
You know, I heard about a pastor that asked a class of Sunday school children who broke down the walls of Jericho.
A little boy answered and he said, well, not me, sir.
The pastor turned to the teacher and asked, is this typical?
She replied, I believe this boy is honest.
I really don't think he did it.
The pastor went to the chairman of the education committee and told him about the conversation.
And he said, I've known the boy and the teacher for years, and I don't think either one of them would do such a thing.
So finally, the pastor went to the chairman of the elders and he told him about those conversations, but the chairman of the elders said, pastor, let's not make an issue of this.
Let's just pay for the damage and charge it to maintenance.
Hey, they had all forgotten, right?
And we're prone to forget.
And so that's why I believe God demonstrates his power to this new generation, just as he made the Red Sea part, then here he causes
this new generation to see this miracle of the Jordan waters of the Jordan stopping.
You can learn about how faith operates in this chapter, right?
Because God said to the priest, go stand in the river.
If someone tells you or me to go stand in the river, well, what do we think that means?
I mean, to me, if somebody tells me go stand in the river, I think he means go out to the middle of the river and stand.
I'm pretty sure he doesn't mean just put your big toe in the river.
or whatever, he means get out there in the river and stand.
The amazing thing, my friends, is that God did not stop the Jordan until they followed him and walked all the way up to the water.
Now, a lot of times we psych ourselves out before God ever gets a chance to act on our behalf.
You know, I've done this many, many, many times where
I knew in my head that God was going to be faithful.
I knew in my head that God was going to get me through what it was that I needed to get through.
But in my heart, I was filled with fear and I was filled with being scared.
And rather than allow God to do it, I would just say, I'm tired of this feeling of nervousness.
I don't like this feeling of being scared.
And so I'm just going to get out of it altogether.
And what I did, all the times I've done that, and I'm sure you may have done that too,
I have short circuited the plan of God in my life.
It's not like I stopped God's progress because if he can't get me, he's going to get somebody else.
Right?
I miss the blessing.
I miss seeing the power of God in my life when I didn't take that step.
I miss seeing what God was going to do.
I missed learning a lesson that could have carried me on through the rest of my life to seeing God work over and over and over again and deliver me over and over and over and over again.
Most of us say, OK, God, when you stop the water and I see that the water is stopped, then I'll move forward.
Instead, God says, no, I want you to walk to the very edge of everything we know and can see and can feel and can taste and touch.
And then I want you to take more steps forward.
That's like when Peter was in the fishing boat and Jesus was on the water and Peter said, hey, Jesus,
I'd like to walk on the water.
So Jesus said, we'll step out Peter and walk on the water.
What if Peter said, okay, Lord, when I see that water turning into a concrete sidewalk, then I'll throw my leg over the boat and I'll step out.
That's not what he did.
Or, well, why don't you get me a boat around here or at least a raft or something?
That way if I try to walk on water and if I fall in and I have a way to save myself, give me a life jacket, man, anything.
Right?
But he didn't do that.
He just swung his leg over the bow and he walked on the water.
But he was not walking on the water.
He was walking on the word of God because Jesus told him he could do it and then he could do it.
The first step, right?
Rather than coming to the end of our own resources, rather than exhausting our own supply, the very first step is
God, what do you want me to do?
Imagine how many decisions in your life or in my life might have worked out better if the first question I asked is, God, what do you want me to do?
God, I need this.
How are you going to do it?
What are the steps you want me to take?
I mean, guide me, direct me, God, every step of the way.
A friend of mine once said, I'm going to do that.
He went to a swimming pool and he said, in the name of Jesus, I'm going to walk on water.
He stepped off and he sank to the bottom like a stone.
The problem was Jesus had not told him to walk on the water and come to him, right?
You can only walk on the water when Jesus invites you to walk on the water.
And you may be, you may have your foot over that bow right now in that boat of your problems.
and the things that are causing you grief and agony and pain and these other things, or maybe even joy.
You may have your leg over that boat, over the edge of that boat.
And Jesus is saying, if I call you to take one more step, do you have the faith to do it?
Do you have the faith to obey me?
Do you have the faith to do what it is that I've told you to do if you do and you take that first step,
I promise you, my friends, God will not disappoint you.
If he's called you to do it, he's going to equip you to do it.
He's going to supply all the power you need, the strength you need to do it.
So we see here that God has asked them to do something difficult.
We also see that God details his instructions.
Chapter four, we learned something else, right?
He said, history tells us about Jericho.
History tells us that the name Jericho came from the personal name of the moon god Yara.
And they worshiped Yara in Jericho because Yara was the moon god who controlled the agricultural seasons for them.
And obviously, if you live in an enclosed city without a safe way, then, you know,
you're going to have to grow in food is going to be really important for the entire population of people who live in that city.
But they believe that he determined the agricultural seasons.
The late British archaeologist Kathleen Kenyon who excavated the site in the 50s said it's a dazzling in this dazzling experience.
The oasis of Jericho stands as one would imagine the Garden of Eden in the book of Genesis.
All of this is because
of this perennial spring called the Sultan Spring.
The Jericho was built on top of, and this Sultan Spring flowed at a rate of over 17 gallons an hour, and that spring provided the town's agricultural needs, and then the town already had rich soil, and it had a mild climate at the time, and so bananas and citrus fruits and stuff grew plentifully there.
But before you
Start feeling sorry for these people who lived in Jericho.
One of their kings came to power and built the city.
Their status, his status was attributed to spiritual power.
And so when the city was finished, they had a dedication ceremony and they ended up putting at least two live babies buried them alive in the walls of Jericho to worship that false God.
They tell us that there were at least five ways to conquer a walled city in that day.
They could scale the walls using ladders or ramps, they could dig tunnels underneath, they could use a battering rim to break open the city gates, or they could smash a hole in the walls of the city, or they could lay siege to the city until the people were starved into surrender.
Those are the five ways you could take on a city
like Jericho, and you might say to yourself, well, why didn't the Israelites just avoid Jericho?
Well, they couldn't avoid Jericho.
Jericho was stood right at the entrance to the promised land.
There were other smaller villages around Jericho that maybe they could have said if they didn't trust God, they could have said, God, you know, we can't take on these people.
And I'm going to tell you about the walls here in a minute and you're going to think, no, they can't take on those people.
But they got there and they thought, oh man, if they had chickened out and said, oh, we can't take on Jericho, they could have gone to the other little surrounding towns and maybe done better there.
And then plowed further into the promised land.
But the problem with that is that the people of Jericho would be at their back and be able to chase them everywhere that they went.
And so there was no way to avoid this confrontation with Jericho.
They knew it had to be done.
so that they didn't have an army chasing them from behind.
Let's read about it in Joshua four, one through three, verse eight and verse 24.
He says, so the Israelites did as Joshua commanded them.
They took 12 stones from the middle of the Jordan according to the number of the tribes of the Israelites as the Lord had told Joshua and they carried them over with them to their camp where they put them down.
And Joshua set up at Gilgal the 12 stones they had taken out of the Jordan.
He said to the Israelites, in the future when your descendants asked your father, asked their fathers, what do these stones mean?
Tell them Israel crossed the Jordan on dry ground for the Lord your God dried up the Jordan before you, before you until you had crossed over.
The Lord your God did it to the Jordan just as he had just what he had done to the Red Sea.
when he dried it up before us until we had crossed over.
He did this so that all the peoples of the earth might know that the hand of the Lord is powerful.
And so that you might always fear the Lord your God.
God said, listen, I want you to pick 12 men, right?
Does that sound familiar?
So they go out and they, when they sent the 12 spies in the land,
They said, this time I want you to pick 12 men, and I don't want you to send them as spies to check out the territory.
I want you to just do what I tell you to do.
And rather than telling those 12 men to go attack Jericho, instead, he says, I want you to find 12 rocks as you're walking over this riverbed to carry them up and carry them with you.
And Joshua, you know, he didn't say, why do you want us to do that?
It seems not a serious task.
Why do you want us to get these rocks?
Apparently not one of those 12 men said, why do we want to pick up rocks for the river?
Now instead, they just obeyed, right?
God sought their obedience in a simple command that he had a greater purpose for, right?
Because what did God say he wanted to use those rocks for?
He wanted to use those rocks to remind them and future generations of what it is that God has done, how it is that God has delivered his people.
My friends, your grandkids and your great-grandkids need to know how has God delivered you?
You need to tell them the stories of the way that God has worked in your life.
Give them something to remember it by.
If you have a token or something that reminds you of something that God has done in your life, right?
Hold on to that thing and let it remind you of what God has already done so that you can tell generations that come after you that God is
faithful to his people.
That's what people want to see.
People who are lost, ask themselves, does Christianity work?
And the answer is yes.
And you all know that, but you got to tell people how has it worked for you?
How has it helped me through difficulty and pain?
So they just domain.
You know, when God tells us to do things, sometimes in His Word, we look at it and we go, why?
But that's not the right response.
We should just obey the Lord and not ask, why?
Because God is trying to get us ready for something that's bigger and something that's better.
Sometimes when God tells us to do simple things in the Word of God, we want to look at it and we want to say, why do we do that?
We want bigger God.
We want you to call us to do something bigger than picking up rocks.
We want you to get us square in the center of the action.
We don't want to have to feed our neighbors.
We want something bigger.
We want something better than that.
But we have to remember ourselves.
Number one, I should do what it is that God has called me to do, whether it's little or whether it's great.
for the first reason, because He is my Lord and my Savior, and I want to be obedient to Him.
The second reason is, He's always preparing me for the next thing, for something else that's going to happen.
And He's doing the same things in your lives.
He's getting you ready.
We see that God deployed His angelic army.
They crossed that Jordan River, and then the third thing happened.
We read about that in Joshua 5, 10 through 12.
It says, on the evening,
of the 14th day of the month, while camped at Gilgal on the plains of Jericho, the Israelites celebrated the Passover.
The day after the Passover, that very day they ate some of the produce of the land, unleavened bread and roasted grain.
The manna stopped the day after they ate this food from the land.
There was no longer any manna for the Israelites, but that year they ate of the produce
of Canaan.
So these guys have been eating manna for 40 years.
And finally, God says, I'm going to give you solid food, right?
I'm going to give you milk.
I'm going to give you the citrus fruits, the bananas, all these things, the meat and all these things.
But there are a lot of folks who just want to keep eating manna.
And they're a content with it.
You know, and they feel like, you know what, at my age, I can't move forward in the things that God has me to do.
Or I've got too many things going on in my personal life to do what it is that God has asked me to do.
The most important thing that you ever have to do on any given day is what God has asked you to do.
There's nothing more important than the creator of the universe employing you to do a task for him and for his glory.
And so I have to adjust my life to God, not ask him to adjust his life to me.
Right?
They've been eating for 40 years.
And some of you here today may say, I'm content eating this manna.
I mean, I'm content because I know what it tastes like.
There's no fear.
I know what's going to happen tomorrow.
You know, and I like this life of predictability.
But I want to encourage you today to have the courage to confront your own Jericho's.
Have the courage to go up against those fortified places in your heart and your mind and your soul that you were scared to touch.
but believe that God has a plan and a purpose if he's called you to do it.
Look what happens in verses 13 through 15.
Now when Joshua's near Jericho, he looked up and saw a man standing in front of him with a drawn sword in his hand.
Tim read this last week, which was an awesome sermon.
Joshua went up to him and asked, are you for us or for our enemies?
Neither he replied.
But as commander of the army of the Lord, I have now come."
Then Joshua fell face down to the ground and reverence and asked him, what message does my Lord have for his servant?
The commander of the Lord's army replied, take off your sandals for the place where you are standing as holy and Joshua did so.
So Joshua thinks, man, I'm the general.
You know, I've been working on this battle plan.
I have got
Everything under control and he goes and he meets this Angel and we talked about this He's playing in the battle.
He sees this warrior.
He hasn't recognized the warrior Naturally, he asks who are you?
Are you on my side or your side to his amazement?
He says I didn't come to take sides.
I came to take over Right And we know because of pastor Tim talked about last week how this is a pre incarnate and
appearance of Jesus, certainly.
And so this Joshua is talking to Jesus.
You know when Shadrach and Meshach had been to go, we're in the fiery furnace, Nebuchadnezzar looked in there and he said, wait a minute, I thought we put three men in there and I see four men in there.
Who the fourth man in the fire is Jesus.
The Bible says a rich young ruler came before Jesus and bowed down before him.
It says, when the leper was healed, he came back and bowed before him.
Mary bowed before him at the feet of Jesus to anoint his feet and his hair.
In Revelation 1, it says, the apostle John sees the Lord Jesus in heaven and he falls down, falls down on his face like a dead man.
And of course, as pastor Tim talked about, it's like when God spoke to Moses and he says, take off your shoes, this is holy ground.
Listen, my friends, anytime you have to fight a battle, the first thing we ought to do is get on our knees and get on our face before God because the battle is won in prayer and in humility.
It's not won by trying to fight it out on your own.
So God had an army ready.
It's amazing to think that for 40 years, this army had been ready.
I think that if the children of Israel at Kadesh Barnea had had enough faith to go on into the Promised Land, perhaps they would have encountered this same angelic army.
For 40 years, they had been ready to fight.
And finally, 40 years later, Joshua sees that they don't have to fight the battle alone and that God has an army.
You remember, there was another place where God did this in 2 Kings, Elisha standing before the Syrian army.
And it's just Elisha and one of his servants and a huge Syrian army gathered against him, and they're going, what are we going to do?
We're outnumbered.
And Elisha says the same thing.
He says, don't worry.
They that be with us are more than they that they'd be with them.
Well, you can imagine the servant kind of looked around and went, uh, I don't think so.
And he got kind of a bad math problem there, Elisha.
What does Elijah do?
He says, Lord, open the eyes of my servant and God opened the eyes of Elijah's servant.
And he saw that the mountains were filled with angelic warriors on chariots and the horsemen of God.
Right?
I'm convinced that there is always an invisible presence of God's army around us.
I'm convinced that there are angels in this room today with us, maybe more than people in this room today.
We don't know.
But we do know that if you peeled back the physical world that we can see, and you could see the spiritual world, Paul says it would blow your mind, that they're everywhere, which is great comfort.
Well, God directed the battle.
Joshua 6, it says, now Jericho was tightly shut up because of the Israelites.
No one went out and no one came in.
Then the Lord said to Joshua, see, I have delivered Jericho into your hands.
Notice he did this in past tense.
I have delivered it before they're even there, along with its kings and its fighting men.
March around the city once with all the armed men.
Do this for six days.
Have seven priests carry trumpets of Rams horns in front of the ark on the seventh day.
March around the city seven times.
with the priests blowing the trumpets.
When you hear them sound a long blast on the trumpets, have all the people give a shout, then the wall of the city will collapse and the people will go up every man straight in."
So this is the plan.
Up the city of Jericho, according to an Oxford University archaeologist named Kathleen Pinyon, said that there have been excavations there and has carbon-dated extracts and remnants
back to almost 10,000 BC living in the city of Jericho.
So we're talking about a city that had been there for centuries and centuries and centuries.
Now we think this happened around 1500 BC when Jericho was was captured by the Israelites and the Bible says there were two walls.
There was an inner wall that was about 20 feet high and six feet thick.
Right?
That's a lot.
of stone, 20 feet high, twice the size of a basketball goal, and six feet thick.
But the outer wall, between the inner wall and the outer wall, there was a 15 foot space there where people could build houses and stuff.
But then the inner wall, the outer wall was 12 feet thick and 30 feet high.
So you have this outer wall that's three times the size of basketball goal, it's eight feet thick, or 12 feet thick, and then you've got an inner wall where people are living in that space in between that is 20 feet high and six feet thick.
People would travel just to see the city of Jericho.
Notice that God's instruction seems strange.
He says, I want you to see
I want you to, don't worry about the spears, don't worry about the swords and the shields and the battering rims.
Here's what I want you to do.
I want you to walk around that city without saying a word.
And I'm sure that the army was like, okay, right?
He says, go back to your camp, spend the night, the third day, do the same thing.
Walk around it again and don't say a word.
The fourth day, do the same thing.
Walk around the city again,
The fifth day, do the same thing.
Walk around the city again.
Do not say a word.
I mean, imagine you're a resident of Jericho.
The first day you're on the wall, you have your spear, your sword and your bow and arrow ready for battle.
You see this army approaching and you're kind of relieved because it's not even a full army.
It's just a part of the army.
And I'm sure that the Israelites stopped just out of the range of their spears and their arrows and they started marching
around the city.
You can just see all the defenders of Jericho following them as Israelites are walking around going, when are they going to attack?
And then the next day is the same thing.
You see them coming up, you get ready for battle and they just walk around the city again.
Then the third day, the fourth day, these people in Jericho got to be saying, why are those cowards out there?
We thought we were going to fight some mighty, you know, great army and they don't even get close enough for battle.
I'm sure that by the fifth day they're going to hear chicken chicken, you know, come on epivitis.
Finally, they get to the sixth day.
Now, the Old Testament Talmud says that it took them from sunrise to sunset to walk around the city seven times on the seventh day.
It was a big city.
All day they walked.
What is it?
What is God doing?
I think he's doing a couple things.
One is he's going to show them, you know, the power that he's about to conquer Jericho with.
He's also showing the people in Jericho that he is God.
They had the ability to leave at any moment.
And then he's going to tire out those soldiers.
So again, they will know that is God who has delivered them and not themselves.
He did it.
so that the only response would be hallelujah.
We don't know how we did it, but we know God did it.
Every archeological excavation of Jericho is determined that there at one time in their history, there was a catastrophic destruction of the city.
It's confirmed archeologically that the city just collapsed, right?
And so they go around that seventh time, the seven priests,
below the seven trumpets, sound familiar?
And then they yell and the walls come down, right?
The last thing I want to learn from this is that God spared those who trusted him.
Remember Rahab?
I mean, every portion of that wall collapsed except for one house built in the wall, the house with the scarlet thread hanging out the window where Rahab and her family were.
That teaches us that whenever God sends judgment, He always sends an opportunity to be a recipient of His mercy and grace.
Right?
That scarlet thread saved Raham.
God saved her.
We have a scarlet thread.
And because of that, God saves us.
That doesn't mean that your problem will always work out the way you wanted it to or the way you hoped to, but it does mean that God is good and He has a plan and a purpose for your life, and we ought not to be content to only see part of it.
I want to see as much of it as I can until the day I croak, and I hope you do too.
Dr. Allen Redpath, who's a great spiritual mind, wrote this.
He said, why did the children of Israel walk 13 times?
around that place in silence.
I suggest it took that long for every one of them to realize that it was utterly impossible for them to capture Jericho if God were not with them.
13 big, long looks at the enemy until they became convinced that they were no match for those behind the wall.
God made the Israelites walk around the great fortification until within themselves they died to every hope of conquest.
Unless God should mindily and miraculously intervene.
Is there a Jericho in your experience?
You are conscious that God has brought you along in the Christian life and manifested himself in blessing to you, but there is still some Jericho that haunt you.
The Jericho within your personality, the Jericho on the outside of the greatest difficulty in the Christian life is getting to the place where you are prepared to admit
that the whole thing is too big for you.
That's the key.
And that the power of the enemy is too great for you.
If you're Jericho is to fall, then somehow God must bring it about.
He said, I believe that before God entrusts any of his people with a real measure of spiritual power, victory and blessing, he brings them to a place where they have surveyed Jericho for so long that they have come to see that its conquest is absolutely hopeless.
Are you in that place today?
God expects nothing more from us than failure, yet we spend years trying to make ourselves something other than a failure.
So as long as we think we can do it on our own strength alone, the miraculous resources of God cannot help us.
When you get to the end of your rope, my friends, you're right where God wants you to be.
Listen, if you have a personal Jericho that you want to pray about, grab somebody in your pews to pray with somebody next to them.
You can come down to the altar and pray.
Pastor Tim and I'll be back there to pray.
You can grab Josh to pray.
Grab one of the elders to pray.
But if this message hits a home where you say, man, I've got a personal Jericho, I need to deal with.
Today's the day to deal with it.
As our band comes up to play our closing song, I would close this in prayer.
Father God, we thank you, Lord, that you don't leave us outside the walls of Jericho.
Oftentimes, God, you'll let us get to the end of our own resources.
We'll get to the end of all we think we know and all that we think we can do, God, and we find you sitting there waiting for us to trust you, waiting for us to give it all into your power, your strength, your mercy, and your might.
God, we trust you completely.
Let us lean on you, God, in your own personal Jericho's.
And Lord, as we face Jericho's in this church, let us band together in unity and cooperation to do what it is that you have called us to do, even if it may seem impossible in our own resources.
We believe you.
You're the God of miracles.
We thank you for the scarlet thread.
We pray these things in Jesus name.
Amen.